(5) Don't rely on the person, rely on the teaching;
(6) don't rely on the person, rely on the Dharma.
(5) Don't rely on the words, rely on the meanings, rely on the interpretable meaning, rely on the
definitive meaning or the ultimate meaning, and that is the third.
And the fourth meaning, the Four Reliances, is not relying on the conceptual level, relying
on the wisdom, the ordinary or the wisdoms.
Those are the Four Reliances that the Buddha taught, that we should rely on to that one
after another, as it says.
First, relying not to the person, but relying on the teachings, or the Dharma, for the teachings.
And that, for example, we cannot rely on the person, the person that can be a bit, kind
of like, very beautiful and very kind of handsome, very nice, very beautiful-speaking, but if
the teaching is not correct, teaching is not right, we are not going to rely on every looking
for the enlightenment, every looking for the true realization, then we should not rely
on the individual, in the persons.
And that is then, in the great Master Mahārāja said, and as well as there is also many of
these stories, even many times, that those bad persons can appear as beautiful persons,
beautiful persons, and will trick, trick, trick, and take advantage, therefore relying
on the teaching, not with persons, persons, persons.
And then, if the person looks like, if he is not that great, not that beautiful, not
that nice looking, but if teaching is good, then that's fine, that is what we should do.
And for example, 18 times, those great Masters, such as 84 Masters, many of them, they are
very, kind of, like, different looking, not officially as, like, monks or the nuns looking,
but very different looking, but when you have that, and those great Masters do contradict
those, then it is the teaching.
For example, Telubavas, what's called the Telubavas feature, they call it external levels, but
not over-contracted, and teaching, that is what you need, you need.
So therefore, and, and, so therefore, relying on the teaching, not on the persons.
And then teaching, not relying on the words, but relying on the meanings, when it comes
to teachings, what the teaching is explaining, what is teaching to us, the meaning of that,
even though it's not really very poetic, it's very kind of like, nice rhythms and all that,
but if we explain the teaching perfectly, it has the meaning, that's what we want.
For that reason, then we could rely on the meaning, not the structure of the word, or
not the sentence, and not the work of the Lord of what it is.
So therefore, we should rely on the meaning of the teachings.
And then when we rely on the meaning of the teachings, in the Buddha's teaching, generally
there's two meanings, two-three teachings, those are known as the, as I translated that,
I think, the interpretable meanings and the definite meanings.
Interpretable meaning is something that Buddha used as the most kind of metaphors, metaphors,
but it means something, that, so we're not just going to take that immediately, what
as metaphor says, says, but we take that, what the meaning, behind the meaning of that.
And then, for example, maybe roughly example, one of the Buddha's teaching, in the Vinaya
teaching, said, Buddha said in Vinaya teaching, sun is shining, the crows are barking, crows
are but, crows calling, crows are calling, palmars blowing, robbers crying, crying, crying,
it is time to wake up, that's what Buddha said, for example.
So what means, sun is shining, of course it also means that too, but means, what means
Buddha came in this world, the teaching is willingly glowing as the sun, sun, that's
what it means.
And crows are calling, that Vinaya practitioners are getting up early in the morning, they're
joining sutras, they're joining mantras or sutras, sutras, in Vinaya teachings, a memorizing
counter-ability, that is what means, it exactly means crows are crowing, crowing, and robbers
are crying, what that means, it, robbers crying means, when you practice immeditating, all
those negative emotions are crying, negative emotions are leaving, leaving, and that's
what means, robbers are crying, and the palmars are blowing, what that means, palm blows means,
all those intelligent person, devoted person, do not meditate activities, plant seeds of
enlightenment, plant the seed for benefit to all the beings, that's what it means.
So therefore, this is just a roughly example of the interpretable meanings, and then there
is also other teachings sometimes said, for example, ancient time Buddha said, ancient
time when I've become the Buddha Verojana, I did these things, but it didn't mean exactly
that Buddha become the Buddha Verojana at the beach in the teaching set, those great
masters mentioned, all the material in the singers, it didn't mean exactly that he become
the Buddha Verojana, but it means the realization of Buddha Khatam himself and Verojana is same,
therefore he just used that metaphor, he used that language, it didn't mean exactly, exactly
that, those are all known as interpretable meanings, and it definitely meanings, then,
so therefore, not relying on the interpretable meaning, but relying on the meaning of the
definite meanings, definite meaning is then, is the Thagatagarbha, Thagatagarbha is a definitely
meaning, there's nothing to change, and the true nature is free from all the complexities,
that is definite meanings, poem is emptiness, emptiness is a poem, that is a definite meanings,
there's nothing going to change, anything about that, those are known as definite meanings,
but in the realization of this definite meanings, then, in the teaching set, we should not rely
on the conceptions, but relying on the verses, conception can change, when it comes to realization,
conception is temporary, conception is impermanent, conception is as subject of the deceiving
states,
change, but the wisdom, realization of the wisdom, that is what we should rely on, that, so
therefore,
with the understanding of the definite meaning, stay with that conception, let that conception
transform into the wisdom, that is the one you said, so here, with this intelligence of the fourth
reliance, yes, those individuals, fortunate individuals with intelligence of the four reliance,
and then, then, then, searching and gathering the profound meaning of the lineage of the Vidyadhar
as,
that, that is what we all need, fortunate persons, beings should do that, otherwise intellectual or
those skeptical persons, whatever people say, should say, we should not, should not accept that,
should not, should not accept it, not should, because it will dilute us, it will deceive us,
it will make this appointment us, it will make us failures, failures of our journeys and spiritual,
that is what we need, therefore, that is what we need, but however, in the Vidyadharasian time,
Vidyadharasian time, and Vidyadharasian times, the words are, the wisdom in the joy efforts are
weak,
and then, as well as married, and also small, and there is also many great masters that,
or the spiritual friend, who had a part of realization of the true nature, and then,
Prabhupada started speaking their own interpreting, their own way, interpreting,
own way, that has become more and more, and even practicing, and that is also diluted by our own
consumption, and it becomes same as, like, the murk, murk in the markets, murk in the market means,
in India that happened, I'm sure it's happened in Italy too, but in Italy they don't have many
markets, so it's all kind of hunger, or at least in our area, we don't have any markets to sell,
but in India, because you have to buy the murk, murk, and because the seller of the murk, murk
always put a lot of water, a lot of water, water in their brain, so then, when I'm young, young,
I see, in India they have a machine, what's called, their special machine, or special kind of small
bottle, to take out how much water inside, and then they want a kilo, but he bought that,
he bought that, and one, that man, he always sells the murk, every day, one day, he showed that,
and he asked to pull murk, and he said, he said, this man said, what is this? He says, I like to
see
how much murk and how much water is inside, so he put the murk in that side, a small glass jar,
something, and then it said something, but I think it's really not really accurate, exactly,
but who says kind of, so I don't know what result can be got, but they have that, so that's what he
said, so murk, I say like, murk in the market, market, it become weaker and weaker, more diluted,
and then that becomes more and more water, water, so even these teachings that come in happening
that again and again, many times, and to make that, to understanding, or to the knower of that,
is the teachings are diluted, that is also very rare, who can know that, exactly that, and
therefore,
and so it becomes very, can be diluted, and then the teachings are very profound, and the teachings
are very special, but however, sometimes also it's difficult to understand immediately what it
means,
so therefore, and then also there is very many less people that who have the joyful effort,
can kind of examine, analyze, and then kind of like bring a more flavor of that teaching, also
become small, and then as well as even though this
and then those intellectual person who don't have the really understanding of the meaning of the
particular teaching itself, and what they were explaining that, even though it is contrary to
the ultimate meaning of the teaching, but however, people won't understand exactly that, can you
see
the difference of that, and then you are immediately kind of accepting as it is, and they used an
example
as in Tibet, they use an example, this is quite large, and an example as a dog getting piece of
long,
that's it, right? Long, L-L-U-N-E, because dog don't kind of can make the striking beat, but
real meat and piece of long, long, long, or piece of organ or long, long, and they accepted that,
immediately accept that, and it's so similarly, similarly people kind of don't understand sometimes
what the teaching really is, and what is diluted and accepted, and then it just becomes very
difficult to understand, how to counter it won't make exactly that difference, and therefore,
even though if they know the powerful meaning of the teaching, but there is very rare,
it's quite rare, people will kind of accept that and join and happy with that, so therefore,
it's difficult, I mean, there's very rare or very small amount of people that can benefit
for that reason, and why I should bother to write these things, even though that is, but however,
even that is so, but however, in this end of the degeneration, this teaching maybe could help
for that reason, with good heart, and then I will explain the powerful meaning of the teaching or
the
very difficult point of the meaning of the teaching, as I receive the teaching from the holy llamas
,
and as well as from the scripture, for the kindness of the scripture and holy llamas,
whatever I realize and understand, I will make this small, I will make a condensed way to
explaining of this meaning of the nuxi, or new meaning of the ordinary nature of the mind, or
fundamental mind that I will explain, so that is the what Mohoramaji is making, that overview of
all these teachings, and as well as the importance of the teachings, and the importance of how to
accept the teaching, and make that something really different, is when the rare teaching
comes, where teaching is available, we should always accept that, with joyfully, with graciously,
within, full of devotions, that is the what I explain. Now,